Intermediate Report
For
Art Therapy for ASD (Autism Spectrum Disorders) :

Release 1.0.1
Name of the Project : OtizArt

Version 1.0 Draft
Prepared by :

Öner Nemutlu
Doruk Bulut
Nebi Osman Ünal
Kuzeyhan Savaş


Nov. 15, 2018









Table of Contents

1.	Introduction	4
1.1.	Purpose	4
1.2.	Scope	4
1.3.	Definition,  Acronyms and Abbreviations	4
1.4.	References	5
1.5.	Overview	5
2.	Overall Description of the Project	5
2.1.	Product Perspective	5
2.2.	Product Functions	7
2.3.	User Characteristics	7
    2.4.     Constraints	8
2.5.	Assumptions and Dependencies	8
3.	Specific Requirements	9
3.1 External Specific Requirements	9
3.1.1 User Interfaces	9
3.1.2 Hardware Interfaces	9
3.1.3 Software Interfaces	9
3.1.4 Communication Interface	10
3.2. Functional Requirements	10
3.2.1 User Management	10
3.2.2 Order Management	11
3.2.3 Products Management	11
3.2.4 Activity Management	12
3.2.5 Donation Management	12
3.2.6 Approvement Management	12
3.3 Non-Functional Requirements	13
3.3.1 Performance Requirements	13
3.3.2 Security Requirements	13
3.3.3 Availability	13
3.3.4 Usability	13
3.3.5 Database Requirements	14
4.	Design	15
4.1.	Software Methodology	15
4.2.	System Architecture Diagram	16
4.3.	Collaboration Diagrams	17
4.3.1.	Users Registration	17
4.3.2.	Users Login	18
4.3.3.	Buy Product	19
4.3.4.	Add Product	20
4.3.5.	Donation	21
4.3.6.	NGO Add Activity	22
4.3.7.	NGO Delete Activity	23
4.3.8.	NGO Update Activity	24
4.4.	Deployment Diagram	25
4.5.	Class Diagram	26
4.6.	User Interface Designs	27
4.6.1.	Main Page of the OtizArt	27
4.6.2.	Registration Page of the OtizArt	28
4.6.3.	Registration Page for Standard and Private User	29
4.6.4.	Registration Page for NGO	30
4.6.5.	Registraion  Form Sent to Admin	31
4.6.6.	Login Page for All Users	32
4.6.7.	Products Page	33
4.6.8.	Add, Delete and Update Product for Private Users and NGO	34
4.6.9.	Activities	38
4.6.10.	Payment Page	41
4.6.11.	Donation Packages	42
5.	Appendices	45
5.1.	Appendix 1 Interview with Nilüfer Ertem, Specialist at KOSGEB and Mother of an ASD Child :	………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….45
5.2.	Appendix 2 Interview with Ufuk Timuçin, Coordinator of İlgi Autism Foundation :	45



1.	Introduction

1.1.	Purpose

The purpose of this SRS (Software Requirements Specification) is to display both functional and non – functional concerns to the readers. This document explains the scope of the system and along with some diagrams clarify the questions; how the system is to be designed, what are the features of the system, and how the system will react in a certain scenario.
This document is prepared in the results of an interview done with Dr. Bilge Say, the script can be found in Appedix part, to be examined by “Atılım University Senior Project Examination Panel” also will be used for design, implementation, and testing phases by project development team.

1.2.	Scope

The developed system "OtizArt" is designed to help the families of children with Autism Spectrum Disorder financially.
The aim of this project is to provide financial benefit or support special education by selling the art products which made by registered NGOs or children with ASD.

1.3.	Definition,  Acronyms and Abbreviations

Term
	Definition
SRS	Software Requirements Specification

DataBase	A Structered Set of Data Held in a Computer System

Web Page Development	Developing a Website For the Internet

ERD	Entity Relationship Diagram

Use Case
	Casual Scenario for All Users
ASD	Autism Spektrum Disorders


NGO	
Non Governmental Organization

1.4.	References

•	IEEE Std 830-1998. Software Requirements Specification
1.5.	Overview

The content of this SRS document contains all the requirements and description of the ‘OtizArt’ project in briefly.
Section 2 explains the the project especially for user with several topics.These topics are Product perspective,Product fucntions,User characteristics,Constraint and Assumptions&Dependencies.In Product perspective part there is a Use Case Diagram for intelligibility.
Section 3 is for ‘Specific Requirements’.This part gives  more details in technically with using ER diagram.The topics under this heading are External interface requirements,Functional requirements and Non-Functional requirements.It is intelligible for developers and experts.
Section 4  ‘Appendices’ part contains some interview with Nilüfer Ertem ( Specialist at KOSGEB ) and Ufuk Timuçin ( Coordinator of İlgi Autism Foundation ).

2.	Overall Description of the Project

2.1.	Product Perspective

The main goal of OtizArt is supporting the families who have child or children with autism spectrum disorders and NGOs that have stundents with autism spectrum disorders.OtizArt runs on web.The art products which made by children can sell on that website.Also there is a donation option for people and finally there is an activity calendar.Use case diagram in Figure 1 explains the mechanism from user perspective.
 
Figure 1 : Use Case Diagram








2.2.	Product Functions 

A.	SalesArtProducts
-	In this function; all products can be saled to other standard users and NGO( as Registered Non Governmental Organizations ).
B.	CreationActivityCalendar
-	In this function; The activities added by the institutions will be displayed on the activities page in the calendar for all users of the OtizArt System.
C.	ProvisionsDonationOptions
-	In this function; there are several types of donation package options in the system. By selecting one or more of these packages, users can make donations to the institution they want or the event organized by that organization.
D.	AuctionsBetweenNGOs
-	In this function; the system can be supported by activities or auctions organized for some special needs defined by NGOs (NGO).
E.	ConnectionBetweenChildrenandNGOs
-	In this function; with the OtizArt system, families can find financial and mental support for their children by contacting the relevant institutions.


2.3.	User Characteristics

Admin: Admin type user’s main task is to control the system. Admin has the authority to approve the registration for new registry. Thus, bringing a restriction to security during registration.The confirmation of uploaded photos are controlled by Admin. Admin can Access the database.Admin has authorizations such as insert, update, remove on database.Activity calendar is controlled by admin.
Private User: Private user is for the family who has child or children with autism. The reason of this, only the family can upload the Picture of the product.Private users’ can see the activity calendar. Therefore we need that type of user. The information of the private users should be kept to confirm that the users of the system are correct and real persons.
Standart User: Standart users dont have any authority. It is just for visitor. Standart user can buy a product for supporting the family also standart users can be benefactor.The standar user can see the activity calendar.
NGO : That type of user also can be a benefactor.Only the NGOs can get that type of user.The NGOs can sell their art products to provide income.This type of user has an authority to organize activity on activity calendar.These are basically what the NGO user can do.
2.4.	Constraints

A.	The system’s design , code and maintenance documentation shall conform to the Process Impact Intranet Development Standard, version 1.3 [2].
B.	The system shall use the current corporate standard Oracle Databae Engine and MySQL Database Engine.
C.	The system has formed platfrom in mysql database supported by PhpMyAdmin.
D.	All HTML, PHP, JavaScripts and CSS codes shall conform to the HTML 4.0 standard.

2.5.	Assumptions and Dependencies

A.	The website should always serve. Operation of the website depends on the server and
B.	hosting. 
C.	Being a private user and upload photos containing art product depends on admin approval.
D.	Another assumption is, website must be mobile friendly.So that means the web page has to be smooth when you want to use mobile platform instead of desktop platform.The layout of the page and the buttons should not be distorded.






3.	Specific Requirements

3.1 External Specific Requirements
		
3.1.1 User Interfaces

1. The system should provide a help link from any HTML page displayed to explain how to use this page.
2. The Web pages should permit complete navigation and product or activity selection using the keyboard alone, in addition to using mouse and keyboard combinations.
3. The system should direct the corresponding admin approval to check the various documents if the system wants to register an official NGO.
	           
3.1.2 Hardware Interfaces

	Hardware interfaces are not defined.
	         
 		3.1.3 Software Interfaces

1. OtizArt System should send the orders from the program interface to the product system. 
	2. System should check with the admin approval if the product is suitable for sale.
3. The system should update the status of a sold product and should changes the stock information.
4. The system should decide the standard user's request to be private users with admin approval.
5. The OtizArt system should communicate with payment system through a programmatic interface.



3.1.4 Communication Interface

	1. The OtizArt System should answer users’ requests. 
2. The OtizArt system shall send an e-mail message to the Admin to confirm acceptance of product, membership and delivery products.
3. The OtizArt system shall send an e-mail message to the Admin to report any problems with the product order or delivery after the order is accepted.

3.2. Functional Requirements 

3.2.1 User Management

FR1: The system must allow users can sign in.
FR2: The system must allow users can log in.
FR3: The system must allow users can log out.
FR4: The system must allow to send standard users' request to be private user to admin approval.
FR5: The system must allow NGOs can sign in.
FR6: The system must allow NGOs can log in.
FR7: The system must allow NGOs can log out.
FR8: The system must allow to send NGOs’ request to be NGO account to admin approval.
FR9: The system should allow standard and private users to update their information.
FR10: The system must only allow admin to update user types.
FR11: The system must allow to NGOs and admin to update NGO informations.
FR12: The system must allow to delete user only for admin.
FR13: The system should view navigation bar.
FR14: The system must view all information about users only for admin.


3.2.2 Order Management

FR1: The system must allow the user to register for order.
FR2: The system must allow the user to view detail description of product.
FR3: The system must notify the user for available products.
FR4: The system must allow the user to buy product.
FR5: The system should allow the user to cancel order.
FR6: The system must show all orders to admin.
FR7: The system should ensure that users are canceling the wrong orders.
FR8: The system must show user to show information about their orders.
FR9: The system should allow to buy products only NGO accounts and standard users.
FR10: The system must view order informations.


3.2.3 Products Management

FR1: The system must record information about every product.
FR2: The system can allow to upload image of product.
FR3: The system should queue products by uploading time.
FR4: The system must update products availability for order.
FR5: The system must allow to create products only for private users.
FR6: The system must send create request for product to admin.
FR7: The system must allow to delete product only for private user, NGO and admin.
FR8: The system must view to available products.



3.2.4 Activity Management

FR1: The system can accept multiple activities on same day.
FR2: The system must schedule the all activities day by day.
FR3: The system must view activity time.
FR4: The system must only allows admin and NGOs to update activities.
FR5: The system must allow to create activities only for NGOs.
FR6: The system must allow to create activities ( like auction )  only for NGO account.
FR7: The system must allow to delete activity only for NGO and admin.


3.2.5 Donation Management

FR1: The system must allow to donate only standard and private users.
FR2: The system must allow to create donation packet only for admin.

3.2.6 Approvement Management

FR1: The system must send standard users’ private user type request to admin(if proper).
FR2: The system must send new products to admin approval.
FR3: The system must send product updates to admin approval.
FR4: The system must allow approvement function only for admin.
FR5: The system must allow to update product only private user and admin.




3.3 Non-Functional Requirements

3.3.1 Performance Requirements

NFR1: The system should support 1000 users during the peak usage all time.
NFR2: The system must generate HTML pages no more than 10 seconds.
NFR3: The system must response to queries no longer than 6 seconds.
NFR4: The system should display confirmation messages to users for 3 seconds after user submit information.

3.3.2 Security Requirements

NFR1: The system provides username and password to prevent the system from unauthorized access.
NFR2: The system must do all network transactions that involve financial information or personally identifiable information shall be encrypted.
NFR3: The system to allow user should be required to log in to the OtizArt System for all operation except viewing products.

3.3.3 Availability

NFR1: The system should always be available for access at 24 hours, 7 days a week. Also in the occurrence of any major system malfunctioning, the system should be available in 1 to 2 working days, so that business process is not severely affected.

3.3.4 Usability

NFR1: The system provides a help and support menu in interfaces for the user to interact with the system.
NFR2: The user can use the system by reading help and support.

		3.3.5 Database Requirements

The Entity Relationship Diagram of the OtizArt System can be seen as in the Figure.

 
Figure 2 : ER Diagram











4.	Design

4.1.	Software Methodology

In this project, waterfall software development methodology is used. the waterfall model describes a development method that is linear and sequential. Waterfall development has distinct goals for each phase of development. Once a phase of development is completed, the development proceeds to the next phase and there is no turning back.
The advantage of waterfall development is that it allows for departmentalization and managerial control. A schedule can be set with deadlines for each stage of development and a product can proceed through the development process like a car in a carwash, and theoretically, be delivered on time. Development moves from concept, through design, implementation, testing, installation, troubleshooting, and ends up at operation and maintenance. Each phase of development proceeds in strict order, without any overlapping or iterative steps. Another positive side of a waterfall approach is that can be applicable by inexperienced teams.
In prototyping software development approach, as it enables to understand requirements at an early stage of development. It helps get valuable feedback from the supervisor and helps to understand about what exactly is expected from the product under development.
The incremental build model is a method of software development where the model is designed, implemented and tested incrementally (a little more is added each time) until the product is finished. It involves both development and maintenance. The product is defined as finished when it satisfies all of its requirements. This model combines the elements of the waterfall model with the iterative philosophy of prototyping. The Incremental Approach uses a set number of steps and development goes from start to finish in a linear path of progression.
Since this project is expensive and has clear objectives and solutions, waterfall development methodology is the best fit for this project. During the development process, every step is done only once. Because of this choice, team should be careful about doing things right and should avoid mistakes as much as they can.






4.2.	System Architecture Diagram

In this section of the report, there is a detailed system architecture diagram to show the necessary system components and their relationships.

 

Figure 3 : System Architecture Diagram
	


 Components and Parts :
-	Web Servers
-	Database


4.3.	Collaboration Diagrams 

4.3.1.	Users Registration

 
Figure 4 : Users Registration Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 4, there is an users’ registrations process. This Figure is about communication between objects of the system. When user want to register to the OtizArt, they have to choose user type as NGO, Private or Standard User. After the selection of the type, they can go to home page. System gets necessary information from user class and uses it for registration.









4.3.2.	Users Login

 
Figure 5 : Users Login Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 5, there is an users’ login process. When users want to login to OtizArt, they will fill the necessary informations as e-mail and password. After this step, they can go to home page as login. System gets necessary information from user class and uses it for login.









4.3.3.	Buy Product 

 
Figure 6 : Buy Product Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 6, there is buying product process for standard user. When the user want to buy one or more product, they need to have standard user account. This user have to communicate with these objects. 










4.3.4.	Add Product

 
Figure 7 : Add Product Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 7, there is adding product process for private user. When the user want to add one or more product, they need to have a private user account. This user have to communicate with these objects.











4.3.5.	Donation

 
Figure 8 : Donation Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 8, there is a donation process for all users. When they want to donate for a NGO or NGO’s activity they can select donation packages types and support them. These objects have to communicate each other.










4.3.6.	NGO Add Activity

 
Figure 9 : NGO Add Activity Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 9, there is adding activity process for NGO. When the NGO want to add any activity, they can add any option to support other activities as financially. If not, they can just add an activity without any conditions. These objects have to communicate each other.










4.3.7.	NGO Delete Activity

 
Figure 10 : NGO Delete Activity Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 9, there is deleting activity process for NGO. 












4.3.8.	NGO Update Activity

 
Figure 11 : NGO Update Activity Collaboration Diagram

In Figure 10, there is updating activity process for NGO. When the NGO want to update their activities, they are free to update it as their needs. 












4.4.	Deployment Diagram



 

Figure 12 : Deployment Diagram

In Figure 12, there are 4 main parts as Client Tier, Web Tier, Application Tier and Data Tier. 
Client Tier can connect to Web Tier by using web browser in the user’s computer. After that, user can 
Connect to user interface.
Web Tier is stands there for being a web server. User can only reach the system with this Web Tier.
Application Tier is the real part of the OtizArt System. It includes web server interface to provide 
Communication between client and system business logic layer. Business logic layer is also stands 
There to control every activity of the system. It is also connected with Data Access Layer. This layer 
Provides to users to reach products, activities, donations and other functionalities on the system. 
System provides an interface to user for accessing purposes. 
In addition, at this tier the system will provide to control the interactions and authorities.
Data Tier  records the users’ information and the functions that the system offers. Data Tier records 
Detailed informations about activities, products and donation packages of the OtizArt System. 


4.5.	Class Diagram

 
Figure 13 : Class Diagram

In Figure 13, there are classes of the OtizArt System. There are six main classes and two sub – classes.
Their functions and attributes are defined as well and their relations.







4.6.	User Interface Designs

4.6.1.	Main Page of the OtizArt

 
Figure 14 : OtizArt Main Page UI Mockup

In Figure 14, there are eight button to interact all functionalities of the website.












4.6.2.	Registration Page of the OtizArt

 
Figure 15 : OtizArt Registration Page UI Mockup

In Figure 15, When the visitor of the website wants to register to the website, they will follow 
These steps on the page. First of all, if the visitor is working for any NGO, he/she will make a
Selection as Non – Governmental Organizations button. However, if the visitor is not working 
For any NGO, he/she will make a selection as User button. 












4.6.3.	Registration Page for Standard and Private User

 
Figure 16 : OtizArt Standard User Registration UI Mockup
 
Figure 17 : OtizArt Private User Registration Page UI Mockup
In Figure 16 and 17, these pages for registration to the website as a user after selection “User” type. If he/she is a parent of any ASD Child, user must be a private user. So, user will make a selection on the checkbox and enter his/her Identification Number on the form. If not, he/she do not have to enter his/her Identification Number. This condition is for correction from the NGO, schools or any foundation. 
4.6.4.	Registration Page for NGO 

 
Figure 18 : OtizArt NGO Registration Page UI Mockup

In Figure 18, there is a registration page for NGO. NGO can create own user type on the system and 
The system administration need to be sure the NGO is official. In order to be sure that, NGO has to 
Enter its Official ID to the system on the registration page. 









4.6.5.	Registraion  Form Sent to Admin 

 
Figure 19 : OtizArt Registration Form Sent to Admin Page UI Mockup

In Figure 19, there is a page for sending registration form to administration to approve 
The registration form. When the administration approves the form, user can login to the
System as using its/his/her informations. 













4.6.6.	Login Page for All Users

 
Figure 20 : OtizArt Login Page UI Mockup
In Figure 20, there is a login page for all of the users. Three users of the system will use same 
Page to login. However, there are some difference between private – standard users and NGO. 
So, the NGO user have to check the checkbox as “ NGO Account ”. 
 
Figure 21 : OtizArt Username/Password Reminder UI Mockup


4.6.7.	Products Page

 
Figure 22 : OtizArt Products Page UI Mockup

In Figure 22, there is a product page to Show all products of the website to standard and NGO 
Users. They can view or buy any products on this page. All products will be listed according 
to their necessacry informations.











4.6.8.	Add, Delete and Update Product for Private Users and NGO

 
Figure 23 : OtizArt Add-Delete-Update Prodcut Page UI Mockup

In Figure 23, Private User and NGO can add, delete and update the product on the products 
Page with using these buttons. 









 
Figure 24 : OtizArt Product Form/Product Info UI Mockup

 
Figure 25 : OtizArt Product Form/Pice Info UI Mockup






 
Figure 26 : OtizArt Product Form/Product Details UI Mockup

 
Figure 27 : OtizArt Product Form/Images UI Mockup




 
Figure 28 : OtizArt Product Form/Success UI Mockup

In Figures 23 to 28, there is a product form page in order to add, update or delete products to 
The websites. There is a progress bar on the page and it will provide users to know and see 
That which step they are in. If the private user and NGO can fill the product form successfuly,
Request will sent to administration in order to approve. After the approvement, product will 
Be listed on the product page by administration. 











4.6.9.	Activities

 
Figure 29 : OtizArt Activities/Add UI Mockup









 
Figure 30 : OtizArt Activities/Update UI Mockup
 Figure 31 : OtizArt Activities/Delete UI Mockup

In Figure 29,30 and 31, there is a page for activities. When the NGO want to create an activity
These pages will help to manage an activity. Delete, Update and Add options will be available 
On the website. 

























4.6.10.	Payment Page

 
Figure 32 : OtizArt Payment Page UI Mockup
In Figure 32, there is a page for payment for activities and donations. They will use the same
Page in order to purchase any product or any donation packages. 
When the use check the checkbox, “ Check Out ” button will be clickable to purchase. 

 Figure 33 : OtizArt Payment Page/Confirmation UI Mockup
4.6.11.	Donation Packages

 
Figure 34 : OtizArt Donation Packages UI Mockup
In Figure 34, there are four donation packages in order to donate for some activities to support
Their events. These donation packages have constant value. But, if the NGO creates an 
activity that they need any support as financially, donations’ value can be changed by the 
NGO.










4.6.11.1.	Donation Package #1

 
Figure 35 : OtizArt Donation Package#1 UI Mockup



4.6.11.2.	Donation Package #2

 
Figure 36 : OtizArt Donation Package#2 UI Mockup


4.6.11.3.	Donation Package #3

 
Figure 37 : OtizArt Donation Package#3 UI Mockup



4.6.11.4.	Donation Package #4

 
Figure 38 : OtizArt Donation Package#4 UI Mockup


5.	Appendices

5.1.	 Appendix 1 Interview with Nilüfer Ertem, Specialist at KOSGEB and Mother of an ASD Child :

Q1 :  What is autism spectrum disorders ?
Answer : Autism spectrum disorder is a complex neuro-developmental disorder that emerges from birth or early years of life. Autism is thought to be caused by some nervous system problems that affect the structure or functioning of the brain. The term autism has been used from time to time because of its ease of use for autism spectrum disorder. 
Q2 : What is the cause of autism spectrum disorder ?
Answer : Today, it is not known what causes the autism spectrum disorder, but there is evidence that it is genetically based. However, it is not yet known which genes or genes are responsible. There are opinions that environmental factors can also lead to autism. Numerous researches have been carried out on the effects of both genetic basis and environmental factors. Autism has nothing to do with child-rearing or family economic conditions; Therefore, autism spectrum disorder is found in all kinds of society, in different geographies, race and family.
Q3 : How can art therapy be applied to children with autism spectrum disorders ?
Answer : Children with this type of disorder can take art theraphy classes to express themselves better and easier. Moreover, these children are highly capable of painting.

5.2.	 Appendix 2 Interview with Ufuk Timuçin, Coordinator of İlgi Autism Foundation :

Q1 : How and by whom is autism diagnosed ?
Answer : Persons who can make a diagnosis are only specialists. The external appearance of children with autism is not different from other children; however, their behavior is different. The diagnosis is made by the experts by observing the child, conducting development tests and asking parents about the child's development. Diagnosis of autism can be made at the age of 12 months. Early diagnosis is important for the start of education.
The experts who can diagnose autism in our country are child mental health specialists and child neurologists.
1.	Child Psychologist
2.	Child Neurologist



Q2 : Are there any system requirements that you can recommend to us?
Answer : You can make some changes to the auction system. You can modify trainer type user. For example; shadow teacher, assistant teacher.
By creating corporate membership to the NGOs, it can be provided that they organize and manage their own sales and activities in the OtizArt system.


